Style in literature is the manner of writing and expressing thought in language, characteristics of
a period, nation or of an individual. Writing style could also be defined the way a writer writes.
The technique used by an author consists of syntax, word choice and tone etc. Aesop being a
slave was not so learned, the vocabulary used by him is very simple and lucid and easy to
understand yet very conceit. The fables are told from the point of omniscient narrator, and show
wit and insight of its characters. The animals and inanimate characters have been given voice to
show human vanities and follies.
Aesop’s Fables are attributed to Greek slave named Aesop lived in 304 B.C.E. The
stories of Aesop’s are known for its wit, sharpness and full of moral lessons. Aesop was a slave
and assumed to be illiterate but intelligent, so the style is very simple and common wards has
been used, but it contains very deep meaning. Aesop has talked mostly about the tyrants but has
talked less about the leaders, being a slave his experiences were related to his masters and
tyrants. Aesop’s Fables teaches philosophy of life by rendering moral to keep away from the
wicked. Aesop’s Fables are impregnated with deep and indirect moral of human life. It teaches
that words are nothing or don’t have any meaning till they are fulfilled by the action. One should
not suffer in false hope or to be deluded by a vain hope and reliance upon them. The stories and
themes of Aesop’s Fables are often funny and easy for children to understand. Some of more
well – known morals credited to Aesop’s Fables are: ‘a double death’ in the fable “The Oxen and
the Butchers” and; “A bird in the hands is better than two in the bush are some of the examples
of morals existing in Aesop’s Fables. Aesop’s Fable also consists of some stories and fables
with Golden rule. “The Old man and his grandson” which is never found in other fables. These
golden rules render morals that we need to analyze and imagine our actions being done to us and
different generations can respect and learn from each other how to behave properly in order to
keep peace, harmony and discipline in family and society. ‘The demonstration’ of animals
symbolizes for slavery in negative way, while it also represents possible side of domesticated
animals.